---
badge: architecture
layout: smb-merit-badge
requirements: true
---

{{#requirements}}
1. Do the following:
    (a) Tour your community and list the types of buildings you see. Try to identify buildings that can be associated with a specific period of history or style of architecture. Make a sketch of the building you most admire.
    (b) Select an architectural achievement that has had a major impact on society. Using resources such as the Internet (with your parent's permission), books, and magazines, find out how this achievement has influenced the world today. Tell your counselor what you learned.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should prepare their work prior to the class and bring their completed work to the class ready to share for review.  Pictures are encouraged to be gathered as a part of this requirement (but not required) to help enhance the sharing of information Scouts have learned in their research and so that others in the class, including the counselor, might have a better understanding of the Scouts choices. Scouts will share their work and findings during the class with the counselor and other Scouts.{{/note}}
2. In the Outdoor Code, a Scout pledges to "be conservation-minded." Discuss the following with your counselor:
    (a) The term *sustainable architecture*. Identify three features typical of green buildings.
    (b) The difference between renewable building materials and recycled building materials, and how each can be used in construction.
    (c) The relationship of architecture with its surrounding environment and the community.
    (d) How entire buildings can be reused rather than torn down when they no longer serve their original purpose.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should review their merit badge pamphlet and come with an understanding for discussion in the class the terms and methods identified in this requirement. It is highly recommended to utilize a Merit Badge Workbook to make notes of your findings. Scouts in attendance that have not reviewed their merit badge pamphlet on these topics and/or do not actively participate in the class discussion will find it difficult to complete this requirement.{{/note}}
3. Do ONE of the following:
    (a) With your parent's and counselor's permission and approval, arrange to meet with an architect. Ask to see the scale model of a building and the drawings that a builder would use to construct this building. Discuss why the different building materials were selected. Look at the details in the drawings and the model to see how the materials and components are attached to each other during construction.
    (b) With your parent's and counselor's permission and approval, arrange to meet with an architect at a construction site. Ask the architect to bring drawings that the builder uses to construct the building. While at the site, discuss why the different building materials being used were selected. Discuss how the different building materials and components are attached to each other during construction.
        **Note:** *To visit a construction site will require advance planning. You will need permission from your parents, counselor, the architect, and the construction site manager. A construction site is a very dangerous place. While there, you will need to closely follow the site manager's directions and comply with all the safety procedures, including wearing a hard hat, protective eyewear, and proper footwear. Be aware of the changing conditions at the site, and stay with the architect or site manager.*
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts wishing to work on requirement component(s) 3a or 3b, may work on these prior to the class, but please note that the counselor reserves the right to accept or deny your work on the basis of meeting the expectations of these requirement components to their satisfaction. Make sure your work is pertinent to the requirement components focus and be prepared to share your work.  Scouts should consider bringing a note signed by the architect they met with during their visit in addition to any other supporting photo or document proof.{{/note}}
    (c) Interview someone who might be your client (such as a prospective homeowner or business owner) if you were an architect. Find out what your client's requirements would be for designing a new home or business building. Write a short program including a list of requirements for the project, the functions of the building and site, how the functions relate to one another, and the goals of the project.
        {{#note type="inPerson"}}Requirement 3c will be covered during the class through the guidance of the merit badge counselor/instructor. However, Scouts wishing to work on requirement component(s) 3a or 3b, may work on these prior to the class, but please note that the counselor reserves the right to accept or deny your work on the basis of meeting the expectations of these requirement components to their satisfaction. Make sure your work is pertinent to the requirement components focus and be prepared to share your work.  Scouts should consider bringing a note signed by the architect they met with during their visit in addition to any other supporting photo or document proof.{{/note}}
        {{#note type="online"}}Requirement 3c MAY be covered during the class through the guidance of the merit badge counselor/instructor.  Keep in mind that there is a writing aspect required for this requirement component that some Scouts may find challenging to complete during the class. If choosing to work on this requirement component, consider preapraing for it prior to the class.{{/note}}
4. Measure a room such as one where you live or where your troop meets. Make an accurately scaled drawing of the room's floor plan showing walls, doors, closets, windows, and any built-in furniture or cabinets. Neatly label your drawing with the following: your name, the date, what room you drew, and the scale of the drawing. (Drawing scale: 1/4 inch = 1 foot)
    {{#note type="inPerson"}}This requirement will be covered in the class through the guidance of the merit badge counselor. However, Scouts are encouraged to take pictures and measurements of a room where they reside or their Scout meeting area in preparation for this requirement and to ensure the highest probability for completion of this requirement during the class.{{/note}}
    {{#note type="online"}}This requirement will NOT be covered in the class however time will be allotted for Scouts to share their work with the merit badge counselor/instructor during the class. Scouts are encouraged to take pictures and measurements of a room where they reside or their Scout meeting area in preparation for sharing their work during the class. Be Prepared!{{/note}}
5. Find out about three career opportunities in architecture. Pick one and find out the education, training, and experience required for this profession. Discuss this with your counselor, and explain why this profession might interest you.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should review this requirement and its components and be prepared to discuss. It is strongly recommended that Scouts bring any notes or supporting documents they may have to help show the counselor that they have prepared for completion of this requirement.{{/note}}
{{/requirements}}
