---
badge: aviation
layout: smb-merit-badge
requirements: true
---

{{#requirements}}
1. Do the following:
    (a) Define "aircraft." Describe some kinds and uses of aircraft today. Explain the operation of piston, turboprop, and jet engines.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should review the Merit Badge Pamphlet and be prepared to share their findings during the class.{{/note}}
    (b) Point out on a model airplane the forces that act on an airplane in flight.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}While a portion of this requirement will be done in class, Scouts will need to review the expectations of this part of the requirement and be prepared to share their knowledge and proficiency during the class to complete this part of the requirement.{{/note}}
    (c) Explain how an airfoil generates lift, how the primary control surfaces (ailerons, elevators, and rudder) affect the airplane's attitude, and how a propeller produces thrust.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts will need to review the Merit Badge Pamphlet and find information that will assist them in completing this part of Requirement 1. It is recommended that Scouts make notes in a Merit Badge Workbook to utilize in providing an explanation, as required, during the class.{{/note}}
    (d) Demonstrate how the control surfaces of an airplane are used for takeoff, straight climb, level turn, climbing turn, descending turn, straight descent, and landing.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}While the counselor / instructor will assist in ensuring Scouts have an understanding of the physics referenced within this requirement, only Scouts who have reviewed the Merit Badge Pamphlet and can demonstrate these principles will have the ability to be signed off on this part of the requirement. Scouts arriving at the class not having prepared for this requirement will NOT be able to fully complete it exclusively during the class. Be Prepared.{{/note}}
    (e) Explain the following: the sport pilot, the recreational pilot and the private pilot certificates; the instrument rating.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts will find preparing for this component of Requirement 1 will be most easily completed by reviewing the Merit Badge Pamphlet. Scouts should mark their Merit Badge Pamphlet or utilize a Merit Badge Workbook to record their findings for easy reference when required to give explanation on this component during the class.{{/note}}
2. Do TWO of the following:
    (a) Take a flight in an aircraft, with your parent's permission. Record the date, place, type of aircraft, and duration of flight, and report on your impressions of the flight.
    (b) Under supervision, perform a preflight inspection of a light airplane.
    (c) Obtain and learn how to read an aeronautical chart. Measure a true course on the chart. Correct it for magnetic variation, compass deviation, and wind drift to determine a compass heading.
    (d) Using one of many flight simulator software packages available for computers, "fly" the course and heading you established in requirement 2c or another course you have plotted.
    (e) Explain the purposes and functions of the various instruments found in a typical single-engine aircraft: attitude indicator, heading indicator, altimeter, airspeed indicator, turn and bank indicator, vertical speed indicator, compass, navigation (GPS and VOR) and communication radios, tachometer, oil pressure gauge, and oil temperature gauge.
    (f) Create an original poster of an aircraft instrument panel. Include and identify the instruments and radios discussed in requirement 2e.
    {{#note type="inPerson"}}Most classes will focus on Requirements 2e and 2f. Scouts should come prepared to participate in completion of these two requirements that will be led by the counselor during the class. Remember that sign off on ANY requirement is at the discretion of the counselor and active participation during the class will be one way the counselor can best assess a Scout's understanding and successful completion. Scouts attending the class that have NOT done preparation work should expect to complete Requirement 2. Scouts choosing to work on a different option(s) may do so and bring their work to class for review and consideration by the counselor, however, Scouts will still be expected to willingly and appropriately participate in any class activities.{{/note}}
    {{#note type="online"}}Scouts should select the two requirement components they want to do and be prepared with their work to share during the class with the counselor / instructor. Scouts not having done pre-work on this requirement will not be able to receive sign off on this requirement.  Any signed off partial or completion of this requirement will be at the discretion and satisfaction of the merit badge counselor / instructor.{{/note}}
3. Do ONE of the following:
    (a) Build and fly a fuel-driven or battery-powered electric model airplane. Describe safety rules for building and flying model airplanes. Tell safety rules for use of glue, paint, dope, plastics, fuel, and battery pack.
    (b) Build a model FPG-9. Get others in your troop or patrol to make their own model, then organize a competition to test the precision of flight and landing of the models.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}This requirement will NOT be done in the class. Scouts may choose to complete this requirement ahead of time or complete this after the class. The class will focus some time for discussion of this requirement as well as the sharing of any video, pictures, and/or documentation to support their completion of this requirement. Only Scouts that share their work to the satisfaction of the counselor will have an opportunity to complete this requirement during the class.{{/note}}
4. Do ONE of the following:
    (a) Visit an airport. After the visit, report on how the facilities are used, how runways are numbered, and how runways are determined to be "active."
    (b) Visit a Federal Aviation Administration facility control tower, terminal radar control facility, air route traffic control center, or Flight Standards District Office. (Phone directory listings are under U.S. Government Offices, Transportation Department, Federal Aviation Administration. Call in advance.) Report on the operation and your impressions of the facility.
    (c) Visit an aviation museum or attend an air show. Report on your impressions of the museum or show.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should bring with them to class some sort of proof (a note signed by the host, your parent, teacher, Scoutmaster, or other) to help validate to the counselor / instructor completion of the visit that is noted in this requirement along with some sort of summary for the option selected. Ideally Scouts should include some sort of additional information to share from their visit (a brochure, a ticket stub, pictures, etc). Scouts will be asked to share their experience with the counselor / instructor and other attending Scouts. It is suggested Scouts may want to consider making notes in order to organize and formulate their description and explanation required for this requirement.{{/note}}
5. Find out about three career opportunities in aviation. Pick one and find out the education, training, and experience required for this profession. Discuss this with your counselor, and explain why this profession might interest you.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should review this requirement and its components and be prepared to discuss.  It is strongly recommended that Scouts bring any notes or supporting documents they may have to help show the counselor that they have prepared for completion of this requirement.{{/note}}
{{/requirements}}
