---
badge: inventing
layout: smb-merit-badge
requirements: true
---

{{#requirements}}
1. In your own words, define *inventing*. Then do the following:
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}The first part of this requirement expects you to define inventing in your own words. Scout will need to be able to communicate to the counselor during the class their definition for inventing in their own words. Remember, there is no right or wrong answer as this part of the requirement is asking you how YOU define inventing. It is recommended that Scouts consider using a merit badge workbook or notebook to make notes ahead of time for easier reference and quick completion of this requirement during the class.{{/note}}
    (a) Explain to your merit badge counselor the role of inventors and their inventions in the economic development of the United States.
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should be prepared with their explanation on this requirement component when attending the class.{{/note}}
    (b) List three inventions and state how they have helped humankind.
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should come to the class with their three selected inventions already in mind and be prepared to share how they have helped humankind.  Only Scouts woo actively participate and contribute to the discussion will be considered for sign off on this requirement component.{{/note}}
2. Do ONE of the following:
    (a) Identify and interview with a buddy (and with your parent’s permission and merit badge counselor’s approval) an individual in your community who has invented a useful item. Report what you learned to your counselor.
    (b) Read about three inventors. Select the one you find most interesting and tell your counselor what you learned.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}While Scouts may choose either of these options, it is recommended to consider doing option 2b for those Scouts desiring the highest chance of completion of this requirement during the class. Time will be allotted during the class for Scouts who come prepared to complete both requirements, however, remember that completion of this requirement (and any merit badge requirement for that matter) is at the discretion and satisfaction of the merit badge counselor. To offer Scouts the greatest chance of completion, preparation is must and thorough notes and documentation can help support your preparation efforts and work.{{/note}}
3. Do EACH of the following:
    (a) Define the term *intellectual property*. Explain which government agencies oversee the protection of intellectual property, the types of intellectual property that can be protected, how such property is protected, and why protection is necessary.
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}couts will find the use of the current Inventing Merit Badge pamphlet to give a good explanation for an understanding needed to complete this requirement component.  It is recommended that Scouts utilize this resource, or other comparable resources to be prepared for explanation during the class. Only Scouts who can share their understanding of this requirement component and its objective will be considered for sign off. Be prepared.{{/note}}
    (b) Explain the components of a patent and the different types of patents available.
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Requirement component 3b requires Scouts to bring the item they selected to class so that they can report their findings and share their results with their counselor and fellow Scouts. Scouts not doing this component ahead of time will have no chance of completing this requirement during the class. Make sure you get your parent's signature in your Scoutmaster Bucky Inventing Merit Badge Workbook to show your counselor that you complied with the requirements of this component.{{/note}}
    (c) Examine your Scouting gear and find a patent number on a camping item you have used. With your parent’s permission, use the Internet to find out more about that patent. Compare the finished item with the claims and drawings in the patent. Report what you learned to your counselor.
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts will need to do a little preparation work prior to the class for this requirement component. It is highly encouraged that the Scout brings their selected gear to class along with their research documentation and findings for the highest level of potential success in completing this requirement. Scouts should be prepared to share their work with the class and counselor in completing this requirement component.{{/note}}
    (d) Explain to your counselor the term *patent infringement*.
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Requirement 3d can easily be found in the merit badge pamphlet. Scouts should make notes to assist them with the explanation part of this requirement component. Scouts that attend the class with a general understanding of what patent infringement will find the greatest of success in completing this requirement component.{{/note}}
4. Discuss with your counselor the types of inventions that are appropriate to share with others, and explain why. Tell your counselor about one nonpatented or noncopyrighted invention and its impact on society.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should have this written out to show the counselor that some thought and research has gone into this requirement and Scouts should be prepared to discuss their findings. Scouts will not automatically be signed off on this requirement just for attending as the requirement states that they must discuss a number of items and will be required to partake in group and/or individual discussion to obtain credit.{{/note}}
5. Choose a commercially available product that you have used on an overnight camping trip with your troop. Make recommendations for improving the product, and make a sketch that shows your recommendations. Discuss your recommendations with your counselor.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should bring their selected item with them to the class for inclusion in their discussion. Scouts wishing to offer themselves the greatest opportunity to complete this requirement at the class will need to have their sketch completed prior to the class.  Extra time during the class has not been allotted for completing the sketch, so Scouts not coming with this part of the requirement completed may be challenged in having all the necessary items ready for review by the counselor at the class.{{/note}}
6. Think of an item you would like to invent that would solve a problem for your family, troop, chartered organization, community, or a special-interest group. Then do EACH of the following, while keeping a notebook to record your progress.
    (a) Talk to potential users of your invention and determine their needs. Then, based on what you have learned, write a statement describing the invention and how it would help solve a problem. This statement should include a detailed sketch of the invention.
    (b) Create a model of the invention using clay, cardboard, or any other readily available material. List the materials necessary to build a prototype of the invention.
    (c) Share the idea and the model with your counselor and potential users of your invention. Record their feedback in your notebook.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should complete as much of this requirement as possible prior to the class. The class is accommodating the time and opportunity for Scouts to present and share their ideas as the requirement necessitates. Scouts who are not able to bring the completed preparation work for this requirement will have an opportunity to receive guidance from the counselor during the class in order to help direct them towards completion.{{/note}}
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}This requirement is directly related to and is a precursor to requirement 7. You will need to complete this requirement before moving on to, and completing requirement 7.{{/note}}
7. Build a working prototype of the item you invented for requirement 6. Test and evaluate the invention. Among the aspects to consider in your evaluation are cost, usefulness, marketability, appearance, and function. Describe how your original vision and expectations for your invention are similar or dissimilar to the prototype you built. Have your counselor evaluate and critique your prototype.
    *Before you begin building the prototype, you must have your counselor’s approval, based on the design and building plans you have already shared.*
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts will NOT be able to complete this requirement until after the class as this requirement is associated directly with the successful completion of Requirement 6 prior to working on this one. Scouts will be presented with a few follow up options for sharing their prototype to complete this requirement. They will learn of these opportunities at the day of the class.{{/note}}
8. Do ONE of the following:
    (a) Participate with a club or team (robotics team, science club, or engineering club) that builds a useful item. Share your experience with your counselor.
    (b) Visit a museum or exhibit dedicated to an inventor or invention, and create a presentation of your visit to share with a group such as your troop or patrol.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should choose one of the options in this requirement to work on prior to the class and bring their completed work to the class ready to share. The Counselor will facilitate a group discussion on both of these options during the class, allowing Scouts to share their findings and learn from other Scouts. Only Scouts who have done preparation work and are able to satisfactorily demonstrate they have completed the items within the selected option AND actively participate in the group discussion, will be considered for completion of this requirement. It is recommended that some proof of participation or visitation be brought along to help support your attendance portion of this requirement. Scouts will NOT be able to complete this requirement without some preparation work prior to the class.{{/note}}
9. Discuss with your counselor the diverse skills, education, training, and experience it takes to be an inventor. Discuss how you can prepare yourself to be creative and inventive to solve problems at home, in school, and in your community. Discuss three career fields that might utilize the skills of an inventor.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should review this requirement and its elements and be prepared to discuss. It is strongly recommended that Scouts bring any notes or supporting documents they may have to help show the counselor that they have prepared for discussion of these items.{{/note}}
{{/requirements}}
