---
badge: robotics
layout: smb-merit-badge
requirements: true
---

{{#requirements}}
1. **Safety.** Do each of the following:
    (a) Explain to your counselor the most likely hazards you may encounter while working with robots and what you should do to anticipate, mitigate and prevent, and respond to these hazards. Describe the appropriate safety gear and clothing that should be used when working with robotics.
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts will need to do some research and reading in order to prepare for this requirement component.  It is recommended that Scouts make notes of their findings to help show the counselor their efforts in preparing for the class.  These notes can also serve to help Scouts successfully perform their explanation or discussion elements of this requirement component. It will be very difficult for Scouts who do not come prepared for this requirement component to successfully complete this in the class.{{/note}}
    (b) Discuss first aid and prevention for the types of injuries that could occur while participating in robotics activities and competitions, including cuts, eye injuries, and burns (chemical or heat).
        {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should review this requirement component and be prepared to discuss, demonstrate, explain, and show, as necessary, their first aid knowledge and proficiency as it applies to this merit badge.{{/note}}
2. **Robotics industry.** Discuss the following with your counselor:
    (a) The kinds of things robots can do and how robots are best used today.
    (b) The similarities and differences between remote-control vehicles, telerobots, and autonomous robots.
    (c) Three different methods robots can use to move themselves other than wheels or tracks. Describe when it would be appropriate to use each method.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}This requirement and its components will be covered in the class however it must be noted that preparation by reading the merit badge pamphlet is a MUST for this requirement, and still does not guarantee completion as Scouts will need to actively participate in discussion on these items,  demonstrating their knowledge and understanding of the objectives of this requirement.  Having done preparation work by thoroughly reading the merit badge pamphlet prior to the class will ensure a higher chance of completion of this requirement for Scouts.  Written notes in your Scoutmaster Bucky Robotics Merit Badge Workbook can greatly increase the likelihood of completing this requirement and its components.{{/note}}
3. **General knowledge.** Discuss with your counselor three of the five major fields of robotics (human-robot interface, mobility, manipulation, programming, sensors) and their importance to robotics development. Discuss either the three fields as they relate to a single robot system OR talk about each field in general. Find pictures or at least one video to aid your discussion.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts must do some preparation work prior to the class to even have a chance of completing this requirement. (Notes are highly recommended to help assist Scouts with their discussion points). Scouts will not automatically be signed off on this requirement just for attending as the requirement states that they must discuss a number of items and will be required to partake in group and/or individual discussion to obtain credit. Additionally, note that the requirement states that Scouts must bring items to help aid their points in the discussion. Scouts not bringing these items will NOT be signed off on this requirement. Be Prepared.{{/note}}
4. **Design, build, program, test.** Do each of the following:
    (a) With your counselor's approval, choose a task for the robot or robotic subsystem that you plan to build. Include sensor feedback and programming in the task. Document this information in your robot engineering notebook.
    (b) Design your robot. The robot design should use sensors and programming and have at least 2 degrees of freedom. Document the design in your robot engineering notebook using drawings and a written description.
    (c) Build a robot or robotic subsystem of your original design to accomplish the task you chose for requirement 4a.
    (d) Discuss with your counselor the programming options available for your robot. Then do either option 1 OR option 2.
        (1) Option 1. Program your robot to perform the task you chose for your robot in 4a. Include a sample of your program's source code in your robot engineering notebook.
        (2) Option 2. Prepare a flowchart of the desired steps to program your robot for accomplishing the task in 4a. Include procedures that show activities based on sensor inputs. Place this in your robot engineering notebook.
    (e) Test your robot and record the results in your robot engineering notebook. Include suggestions on how you could improve your robot, as well as pictures or sketches of your finished robot.
    {{#note type="inPerson"}}Scouts should be prepared by bringing a Robot Engineering Notebook on the day of the class.  Scouts having robotic experience may choose to do some of these components ahead of time increasing their ability to complete and be signed off on all requirements at the class. Scouts not having prior robotic experience will have time allotted during the class to get an understanding of the requirement and make a lot of headway on these items; if they work hard and stay focused.{{/note}}
    {{#note type="online"}}THis requirement must be done prior to the class.  Scouts will find it helpful to work with a school robotics coach ahead of time. Scouts should be prepared by bringing their completed Robot Engineering Notebook on the day of the class.  Scouts not having prior robotic experience will not likely be able to complete this requirement.{{/note}}
5. **Demonstrate.** Do the following:
    (a) Demonstrate for your counselor the robot you built in requirement 4.
    (b) Share your robot engineering notebook with your counselor. Talk about how well your robot accomplished the task, the improvements you would make in your next design, and what you learned about the design process.
    {{#note type="inPerson"}}Some Scouts who have robotic experience and bring their pre-class work for requirement 4, may have an opportunity to present their robot. If time allows during the class, Scouts will be presenting their robotic creations, designs, ideas, and notebooks to the merit badge counselor (this may be done one-on-one or as a part of group discussions and sharing and is at the discretion of the counselor).{{/note}}
    {{#note type="online"}}Scouts who have robotic experience and bring their pre-class work for requirement 4, will have an opportunity to present their robot. Scouts will present their robotic creations, designs, ideas, and notebooks to the merit badge counselor.{{/note}}
6. **Competitions.** Do ONE of the following.
    (a) Attend a robotics competition and report to your counselor what you saw and learned about the competition and how teams are organized and managed.
    (b) Learn about three youth robotics competitions. Tell your counselor about these, including the type of competition, time commitment, age of the participants, and how many teams are involved.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should choose one of the options in this requirement to work on prior to the class and bring their completed work to the class ready to share for completion. The Counselor will facilitate a group discussion on both of these options during the class, allowing Scouts to share their findings and learn from other Scouts. Only Scouts who have done preparation work and are able to satisfactorily demonstrate they have completed the items within the selected option AND actively participate in the group discussion, will be considered for completion of this requirement.  Scouts will NOT be able to complete this requirement without some preparation work prior to the class.{{/note}}
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}During the class Scouts will learn about the First Lego League and other Robotic teams and competitions in the local area. If Scouts are unable to come to the class prepared, they will leave with ideas and resources for easily finishing this requirement on their own.{{/note}}
7. **Careers.** Name three career opportunities in robotics. Pick one and find out the education, training, and experience required for this profession. Discuss this with your counselor, and explain why this profession might interest you.
    {{#note type="inPerson" type2="online"}}Scouts should review this requirement and be prepared to discuss.  It is strongly recommended that Scouts bring any notes or supporting documents they may have to help show the counselor that they have prepared for discussion of these items.{{/note}}
{{/requirements}}
